Hey there! So this is the second part of this
section where we'll automate scraping LinkedIn.
So let's begin. We go back to the sublime text.
First, what we'll do is load google.com.
The reason why we'll load google.com...
so we will, pretty much, do or go to the
google.com homepage. Then we will,
just like we did here, we will first locate
this input here. Then we will, pretty much,
enter some text field or, really, search query,
and then scrape specific linkedin.com/in.
As you will see in a moment,
part of the URLs, and go to the profiles.
So the way that we'll do that in
the code is by doing the following.
So we type in:
driver.get('https://www.google.com')
We'll also load the sleep method from the
time module. The reason why we are doing this
is just to have some, really, sleeping or, really,
just a pause between inputting certain things.
So we ensure that after logging in,
the script doesn't go straight away,
and then go to google.com, etc. So just to
make sure that everything will be working correctly,
and probably using time module is the
easiest way to do something like this.
So let's add, for example, sleep function
here of 0.5 seconds. Also, let's do it here.
So we can paste this in, and let's
also use it after we go and type this in.
So sign_in_button, and we also just
need to type in here sign_in_button.click
to pretty much mimic this clicking in. And
then we can type in here sleep, for example, 5.
So this will, pretty much,
pause our script for 5 seconds.
Just to, again, make sure or ensure that the
script will or the page will get loaded.
So we go to google.com. So we can copy this,
and paste this into our Terminal.
So paste it in. And as you can see,
it's going to load Google.
And then we need to input our or, really,
locate our input. So to do that, of course,
we go to the right-click, then Inspect. And here we
have a bunch of different, as you can see,
values, types, value, aria, labels, etc.
So one that probably will not change
in the future is going to be name="q"
So we already used name when it comes to locating.
And it was by going into the
driver.find_element_by_id
As you will see in a moment, this is where
we use this. So we're inputting password.
So driver.find_element_by_id. And then
we type in just the 'q' as you can see.
Then hit Enter. And if we go back to the
Terminal... for some reason it's not found.
Let's try to do it once again.
Oh, sorry... by_name. My bad.
So I'm not sure how I did miss this.
Let's see it once again. Inspect it, name='q'
For some reason, I saw somewhere ID,
so I got confused. Anyway, so we can copy this,
and name it something like, let's say,
search_query is equal to this value.
And we can copy this,
and paste this into the Terminal. And
let's see if this is now working. Perfect.
Okay, so it's working. And then what
we need to do is type in the following.
So search_query.send_keys
Then in open and closed parentheses,
let's type in, for example, the search...
following search query. So it's going to be equal to
site:linkedin.com/in/ AND "python developer"
And we want to search it in, for example,
London. So we type this in. And as you can see,
it will return ten or so different
profiles per page. Also, one thing to note
is that even though Google will display
or say that it contains 5040 results,
it will load a maximum thousand results.
So this is also true when it comes to also
LinkedIn. The reason why is because, really,
it doesn't really matter what search query you
are using. Google will restrict your displaying
of the results per thousand, really.
So any, really, search query that
you enter even Facebook, Instagram, or
something like that, which will return
probably a few million, at least, results,
it will only display up to a thousand.
Google does this because, really, nobody...
bottom line is nobody is going to even
bother going to the hundred or so page.
Same thing, really, with the LinkedIn.
But, generally speaking, LinkedIn is going to
be extra restrictive when it comes to scraping.
So, in this course, we'll just
scrape ten or so different profiles
so your account doesn't get banned
or restricted or something like that.
So I would be extra careful
when it comes to scraping LinkedIn.
Let's go back to the Terminal. And,
let's see, so we can copy, pretty much,
and paste this in. So, let's see, let's
actually go back to the text editor
and type in search_query is equal... or sorry,
dot send_keys.  And then we can type this in.
Let's see if it's going to be working.
Yeah, it's going to be fine.
So we can copy this, and let's go back a page.
Perfect. So to verify that the page was loaded,
you can type in driver.current_url
Hit Enter. And, as you can see,
it's going to be corresponding to the URL
here, which is going to be Google home page.
And if we copy our previous
statement, hit Enter... let's see,
Message: stale element... okay, perfect.
So this is also one thing to note when
it comes to scraping with Selenium. You
will have to enter it or, really, search for the input
every time you load the page.
So, as you can see here,
we get the Message: stale element reference:
element is not attached to the page document
This happened because we were going to this
page, and then manually going or, really,
automating going here. So Selenium
thinks that this is the page that, currently,
it's active, but it's actually this one.
So you have to input your, in this case,
inputs once again. So search_query,
and then we can load our history and,
pretty much, hit Enter. And, as you can see,
it's loaded. So then what we need to do is,
pretty much, let's see, we can...
since we... let's say this is too complicated
because it's going to be language
dependent. So if your first language is English,
it will probably say something like Google Search.
Or here from the first hand, as you can see here,
it's going to be Serbian because I'm from Serbia.
So what we can do, pretty much, is
automate previously mentioned in Part 1,
automating clicking Return button.
So to do that, really, it's going to be extra easy.
So we type in search_query.send_keys
And then we type in here Keys, and then
RETURN. But first we need to input or, really,
let's first copy this, and paste this
into your sublime text or text editor.
So first we will need to import the keys
because it's not going to be the same as
with the, let's see, send_keys. So to
import it, we type in from selenium,
common, sorry, webdriver, and then
common dot keys, import, uppercase Keys.
So we copy this. Let's go back to our
Terminal, and we can paste this in.
And we can also copy and paste this right now.
So this will automate clicking the key Return.
So let's hit Enter and, as you can see,
page that we just previously loaded
is going to be loaded, really. Pretty
simple. Let's see what's in the next step.
So next step is locating the, really, the
linkedin.com/in/ part of the page.
So it's going to be all of these
different green URLs. So to do that,
we are going to go back to our
Terminal, and then type in the following.
So we need to first locate the,
specifically, the HTTPS,
as you can see this green part
of the text that I'm highlighting right now.
To do that, it's going to be extra quick
and extra easy. We go and, as always,
type in Inspect or click Inspect.
And then let's see where it is.
It's, as you can see, in the cite class.
So probably this is something specific.
So we can copy and paste this, and see
how many times this actually displays.
So it seems like it's only 12 times.
So this is, actually, by the way,
the way that I figure out the exact selectors.
So this is the exact process that I use.
And, as you can see, probably, yeah,
always they are going to be in the cite class,
and then some specific value. This
specific value is going to be changed.
So we need to, pretty much, locate the
element by cite command. And then we are,
pretty much, good to go. So it's
going to be fairly easy. So, let's see.
Let's type in the linkedin_urls, for example,
driver.find_element_by_tag_name.
So tag names are, in this case, it's going
to be div, div, h3, div, div, and then cite.
So we need to type in driver.find_element_by_tag_name.
And then we type in just the cite.
Let's go back to our Terminal, and then
type in the length of the linkedin_urls.
Let's see, sorry. We need to find
elements, not the element.
So, as you can see, if I type in, right now,
the length of the linkedin_urls, it's going to be 10,
which corresponds to the number of pages.
And let's copy this to our text editor.
And, let's see, we need to type in...
okay, so this is the Terminal, so linkedin_urls.
If we really isolate the first one in the
list slicing and type in 0, you will see
selenium.webdriver.remote.webelement.WebElement
So it doesn't contain the text.
And the way that you'll type in or,
really, extract the text is not by typing in
/text() like with Scrapy or lxml.
You type in just .text, hit Enter,
and, as you can see, this is going to be pauljgarner.
So it's going to be, as you
can see, corresponding to the first one.
So it's going to be extra easy
logging this or, really, scraping this.
So linkedin_urls is going to be
equal to the list comprehension,
and the list comprehension is following. So
for url in linkedin_urls. So this is our ordinary for loop.
And then we will do... or unpack every value, and
then extract just the text from each and every one.
So if we copy and paste this,
go back to our Terminal, paste this in,
and type in, right now, linkedin_urls, hit Enter,
you will see that this
corresponds to the URLs.
So that will be it for this video,
and I'll see you in the very next one.